React Native vs Flutter can be a good foundation for further analysis and research. In considering which framework to use for cross-platform app development, it will be wise to ask two questions. Are you looking at developing your apps at a rapid pace? Are you looking at reducing the cost of cross-application app development?  If the answer to both these questions is a confident yes, then the comparison we provide will help you decide which framework to choose for your cross-application app development. Let us understand both the frameworks and understand their differences clearly. What Is Flutter? Flutter was created by Google and is an open-source framework that was released in May 2017. With just a single code, Flutter developers are able to create a native mobile application. It Has Two Main Parts A development toolkit is provided in order to assist the developers. The kit has tools that assemble the code into a native machine code applicable for both iOS and Android. It also provides a user interface library that is widget-based. This holds a bundle of metamorphic UI components like buttons, inputs, test, etc. These elements help in the personalization constructed according to your needs.  Flutter uses the Dart programming language, which can be used for front-end development for both mobile and web-based applications. You might also like: Flutter vs. React Native App Development: Who Will Win the Race? Reasons to Use Flutter Easy to learn with easier usability — Flutter is a contemporary framework, and due to its features, it's easy to create applications. The coding is simple, and you can easily make cross-platform applications. Quick compilation — Flutter also gives developers the convenience to change code and immediately see the result of the change in real-time. This is the hot reload feature, which provides developers the ease to change code and see results. Great for Start-ups — In order to attract Venture capitalists to your project, you can make a fine presentation of your offering using flutter. Minimum viable product or the MVP can be made using Flutter. Good documentation — For new technologies, having good documentation is absolutely necessary. Flutter’s documentation is detailed and has instant documentation support for every issue encountered. Growing community — Although not a very big community, its community presence is ever-growing. What Is React Native?A framework built by Facebook for chalking out native apps for iOS and Android under one common language that is JavaScript.Reasons to Use React Native Single code — React Native framework developers prefer this dynamic framework for this reason. You can code only once and use that code to create apps on both platforms. Node Package manager — With this installation, it becomes way easier than it used to be because developers feel that installation is the hardest thing to carry out.A flourishing React Native community — As of now, the React Native community has a huge community and with continuous improvement and plans, the community and the plugins are getting better. Presence of third party libraries — A great supporting feature of React Native framework is the presence of third-party libraries giving developers a wide choice to go ahead. 